everybody this is Robert with multi D
today we're gonna be taking a look at
the octobot by Steve to Kowski and we're
gonna prepare this for 3d printing on AF
DM or FFF machine if you were to try to
print this all in one go you would have
a ton of support material all in the
inside of the legs and the body and
there's this little camera and a light
thing which is uh just a lot of
overhangs and it's kind of stressful for
any printer really and you won't really
get the best results so let's take a
look at how we broke it down already and
we're gonna take a look at one aspect of
how we achieve this so you can see that
we have one two three four pieces of the
character this Lake obviously gets
duplicated around eight times and then
we have these little pins and these pins
snap together kind of like a toy and we
have three size pins one small one up
here for the light one medium sized one
one large one actually for the head so
the head rotates and and one for the
lake here so we're just gonna look at
how we did the lake so this is a octobot
that has not been affected yet and we're
gonna just quickly go through the the
technique to do this it's very similar
to making keys I'll be it's a bit
improved and it's really cool because
everything snaps together so what we're
gonna do is we're gonna grab the body
here and we're just gonna do the one for
this Lake and we're gonna hide these
guys here so we're just gonna
concentrate on this one section so we're
gonna use what's called an insert mesh
so what we do is hit the B key in the
eye key and we had this IMM FDM pin one
that we already have pre-made and in a
later tutorial we'll go through how to
make one of your own so you can see I
could just drag this anywhere and what
we're going to do is we're going to drag
this right in the center of this you
know Lake joint and don't worry about
being exact we can always we can always
modify word or where exactly it is we're
gonna inset it all the way in
we're gonna go to the side view and and
move this up so we're just gonna push
that right in there so what now we know
this is connecting into a leg so we got
to make sure that it doesn't stick out
and it actually looks okay and if you
hit transparency you can see that we're
getting kind of close so we might want
to inset this just a little bit more
alrighty so that looks pretty good and
it doesn't actually matter that these
are perfectly Center now the more center
the better but that's gonna work out
pretty good for us so if we take this
this model now we use the insert mesh so
it's all kind of one polygon we're gonna
clear our mask we're gonna go down here
and hit split and say split the parts
and now you could see we generated
actually three new parts we turned it
generated to cutter shapes and then we
have our pin this is our pin that's in
place and in the correct scale and it
already has a tolerance to it so it's
actually slightly smaller you can see
it's already slightly smaller than the
cutting shape so it's gonna fit right in
it right in there nicely so the next
step is a pretty common one we're just
gonna boolean out these cutter shapes so
let's go ahead and select our body here
and then we're gonna just double check
and make sure that this is ready to go
and we're gonna turn on visibility and
make sure those are off selected body
and we're gonna hit this little Halfmoon
circle here and then we're gonna merge
this down March down and we're gonna
redraw our dynamesh and we'll let that
run alright so that is all done running
and you can see that we have a perfectly
cut hole one thing to keep in mind is
you notice how we put the flat sides on
the side and the round side this allows
the 3d printer to gradually build up the
top edge here limiting its need for use
of support if the flat edge was here it
would have to generate this whole edge
all at one time and you might have
drooping or overhang issues so we're
gonna actually do this one more time
with the leg now so we're gonna go ahead
and move this all the way down we're
gonna select the leg let's hide that
body real fast
we're gonna show the pen and always make
sure that before you dynamesh these
bullying's is that everything is a solid
polygroup so we're just hitting ctrl W
on each one and we're gonna do the
Halfmoon again and select the leg and
we're gonna merge down and then we're
gonna retain the mesh all right so
that's cut out not too so let's take a
look at what we're left over what we
have left over so we have the pin and a
body all done and it's gonna fit
together really nicely so let's go and
just we'll just move this out for
presentation and you could see how this
is all gonna kind of fit together so
let's turn off transparency and that's
one leg done so in the future we would
have done all of these at the same time
and and then we would have just been
saving ourself a little bit of time we
could use radial symmetry for that and
that's pretty much the method that we
use to break down this octopi
so they can be ready for watching be
sure to check us out at multicom follow
us on Facebook and Twitter at Moultrie D
and I'd be sure to subscribe to our
videos lots more to come so thank you
for watching and we'll see you next time